So now let's look at the second normal form.
So a table was in second normal form.
If it's in first novel full plus every column of data that is not a primary key of the table is dependent
on the whole of the primary key.
So what does this mean.
So this has to do with removing unrelated data from tables.
So I remember from before I said we only wanted related data in a single table.
Well this is how we use normalization to remove unrelated data from a table.
We want to make sure every column that is not a primary key of the table is dependent on the whole of
the primary key.
And by the whole of the primary key we mean every column that makes up that primary key.
So I've already mentioned that we can have multiple columns combined together to make a primary key
in any column.
That's not a primary key must depend on the whole of this primary key.
So now let's look at an example.
So here we have a student table and it contains the student name any subjects they're taking the Great
they got for that subjects and their age.
So let's take a look and see if this table is in second normal form.
So the first thing we need to check is whether it's in first normal form so we can see there's no repeated
rows of data.
Every row is unique within this table.
We can see that every column only has a single entry and we can see that it does indeed have a primary
key.
So the primary key is the student column plus the subject column.
So we have Natasha Williams math.
Natasha Williams English and these are this combination is unique and then we have Daniel James math
Simon Brown chemistry hematomas geography.
OK so it is in first normal form.
So now we got to check whether it is in second normal form.
So is every column that's not a primary key dependent on the whole of the primary key.
So we can see we have two columns here which aren't primary keys.
We have grade and daj.
So let's first check the great column.
So yes this is dependent on the whole of the primary key and we know this because it doesn't make sense
to just say.
Natasha Williams I we need.
Natasha Williams Plus the subject of math to be able to say that her grade was a.
And it also doesn't make sense to just say Subject math grade A or a subject math grade C.
We also need the student name to be able to say what grade they got.
So yes the grade is dependent on the whole of the primary key.
So it depends on the student and the subject.
So now we need to check the age column.
Well the age column does depend on the student.
So we need the student to be able to tell what their ages are so we need to say.
Natasha Williams to be able to say she's 15.
We need the student name.
Daniel James to be able to say he's 16 but we don't need to shoot the student subjects.
So the fact that Natasha Williams takes math and English doesn't have any impact on the age of two.
So this age column is dependent on the student but it's not dependent on the subject.
So this age column is not dependent on the hold of the primary key.
So this table is in fact not in second normal form.
So now the question is how are we going to make sure that this data is normalized so that it follows
the second normal form and to do that we actually need to split this table into two separate tables.
So the first table was going to look like this.
It has the student name the students subjects and the grades.
So basically we've removed the age column from the original table and we just have the name subjects
and grade.
So now we need to check whether this table was in second normal form.
Wow.
First let's check in first of form.
So yes there's no repeated rows of data.
Every row is unique and every column only has one value.
And we also have a primary K is the same primary key is studen plus subject.
So now we need to check whether it's in second normal form.
Well actually we've already checked for the grade column.
Yes it's dependent on the whole of the primary key.
So we need to she didn't name and we also need test subject to be able to tell what grade they got.
So yes this table now follows a normal form.
So what about the age of the student.
So for that we actually need a separate table which just has the student name and the age.
So let's check if this follows a normal form.
Well does it follow first normal for so yes there's no repeated rows of data.
We haven't got Natasha Williams entered twice or done you James and to twice every row is unique every
column only has one value and we have a primary key.
I saw a student column so this table does follow first normal form.
Now does it follow Second normal form.
So our primary key is now any made up of one column and we have one column which is not a primary key
which is H.
And yes it's fairly obvious that this does depend on the student.
So the age column does depend on the whole of the primary key.
So this table is now in second normal form.
So if we add any columns in a table which one dependent on the hold of the primary key is you show that
we have to separate this data into two separate tables so that it follows second normal form.
So the second normal form is quite a lot more complicated than first animal form.
So maybe you need to go through this video more than once just to make sure that you have absolutely
understood what second normal form is how to make sure that your table are in second normal form and
then we can move on to the next video which is looking at third normal form.